# MOVAPS

Move Aligned Packed Single Precision Floating-Point Values

InstructionMode Feature SupportFlagNP 0F 28 /rAV/VSSEMove aligned packed single precision floating-point MOVAPS xmm1, xmm2/m128values from xmm2/mem to xmm1.
NP 0F 29 /rBV/VSSEMove aligned packed single precision floating-point MOVAPS xmm2/m128, xmm1values from xmm1 to xmm2/mem.
VEX.128.0F.WIG 28 /rAV/VAVXMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS xmm1, xmm2/m128values from xmm2/mem to xmm1.
VEX.128.0F.WIG 29 /rBV/VAVXMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS xmm2/m128, xmm1values from xmm1 to xmm2/mem.
VEX.256.0F.WIG 28 /rAV/VAVXMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS ymm1, ymm2/m256values from ymm2/mem to ymm1.
VEX.256.0F.WIG 29 /rBV/VAVXMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS ymm2/m256, ymm1values from ymm1 to ymm2/mem.
EVEX.128.0F.W0 28 /rCV/VAVX512VLMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128AVX512Fvalues from xmm2/m128 to xmm1 using writemask k1.EVEX.256.0F.W0 28 /rCV/VAVX512VLMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256AVX512Fvalues from ymm2/m256 to ymm1 using writemask k1.EVEX.512.0F.W0 28 /rCV/VAVX512FMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512values from zmm2/m512 to zmm1 using writemask k1.EVEX.128.0F.W0 29 /rDV/VAVX512VLMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS xmm2/m128 {k1}{z}, xmm1AVX512Fvalues from xmm1 to xmm2/m128 using writemask k1.EVEX.256.0F.W0 29 /rDV/VAVX512VLMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS ymm2/m256 {k1}{z}, ymm1AVX512Fvalues from ymm1 to ymm2/m256 using writemask k1.EVEX.512.0F.W0 29 /rDV/VAVX512FMove aligned packed single precision floating-point VMOVAPS zmm2/m512 {k1}{z}, zmm1values from zmm1 to zmm2/m512 using writemask k1.Instruction Operand EncodingOp/EnTuple TypeOperand 1Operand 2Operand 3Operand 4AN/AModRM:reg (w)ModRM:r/m (r)N/AN/ABN/AModRM:r/m (w)ModRM:reg (r)N/AN/ACFull MemModRM:reg (w)ModRM:r/m (r)N/AN/ADFull MemModRM:r/m (w)ModRM:reg (r)N/AN/AMoves 4, 8 or 16 single precision floating-point values from the source operand (second operand) to the destination operand (first operand).
This instruction can be used to load an XMM, YMM or ZMM register from an 128-bit, 256-bit or 512-bit memory location, to store the contents of an XMM, YMM or ZMM register into a 128-bit, 256-bit or 512-bit memory location, or to move data between two XMM, two YMM or two ZMM registers.
When the source or destination operand is a memory operand, the operand must be aligned on a 16-byte (128-bit version), 32-byte (VEX.256 encoded version) or 64-byte (EVEX.512 encoded version) boundary or a general-protection exception (#GP) will be generated.
For EVEX.512 encoded versions, the operand must be aligned to the size of the memory operand.
To move single precision floating-point values to and from unaligned memory loca-EVEX.512 encoded version:Moves 512 bits of packed single precision floating-point values from the source operand (second operand) to the destination operand (first operand).
This instruction can be used to load a ZMM register from a 512-bit float32 memory location, to store the contents of a ZMM register into a float32 memory location, or to move data between two ZMM registers.
When the source or destination operand is a memory operand, the operand must be aligned on a 64-byte boundary or a general-protection exception (#GP) will be generated.
To move single precision floating-point values to and from unaligned memory locations, use the VMOVUPS instruction.VEX.256 and EVEX.256 encoded version:Moves 256 bits of packed single precision floating-point values from the source operand (second operand) to the destination operand (first operand).
This instruction can be used to load a YMM register from a 256-bit memory location, to store the contents of a YMM register into a 256-bit memory location, or to move data between two YMM registers.
When the source or destination operand is a memory operand, the operand must be aligned on a 32-byte boundary or a general-protection exception (#GP) will be generated.128-bit versions:Moves 128 bits of packed single precision floating-point values from the source operand (second operand) to the destination operand (first operand).
This instruction can be used to load an XMM register from a 128-bit memory location, to store the contents of an XMM register into a 128-bit memory location, or to move data between two XMM registers.
When the source or destination operand is a memory operand, the operand must be aligned on a 16-byte boundary or a general-protection exception (#GP) will be generated.
To move single precision floating-point values to and from unaligned memory locations, use the VMOVUPS instruction.128-bit Legacy SSE version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the corresponding ZMM destination register remain unchanged.(E)VEX.128 encoded version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the destination ZMM register are zeroed.

## Exceptions

- Other Exceptions
  > Non-EVEX-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type1.SS
  > E in Table2-18, "Type 1 Class Exception Conditions," 
  > additionally:

## Operation

```C
VMOVAPS (EVEX Encoded Versions, Register-Copy Form)(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)FOR j := 0 TO KL-1i := j * 32IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*THEN DEST[i+31:i] := SRC[i+31:i]ELSE IF *merging-masking*; merging-maskingTHEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*ELSE  DEST[i+31:i] := 0 ; zeroing-maskingFIFI;ENDFORDEST[MAXVL-1:VL] := 0VMOVAPS (EVEX Encoded Versions, Store Form) (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)FOR j := 0 TO KL-1i := j * 32IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*THEN DEST[i+31:i] := SRC[i+31:i]ELSE *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*; merging-maskingVMOVAPS (EVEX Encoded Versions, Load Form) (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)FOR j := 0 TO KL-1i := j * 32IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*THEN DEST[i+31:i] := SRC[i+31:i]ELSE IF *merging-masking*; merging-maskingTHEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*ELSE  DEST[i+31:i] := 0 ; zeroing-maskingFIFI;ENDFORDEST[MAXVL-1:VL] := 0VMOVAPS (VEX.256 Encoded Version, Load - and Register Copy)DEST[255:0] := SRC[255:0]DEST[MAXVL-1:256] := 0VMOVAPS (VEX.256 Encoded Version, Store-Form)DEST[255:0] := SRC[255:0]VMOVAPS (VEX.128 Encoded Version, Load - and Register Copy)DEST[127:0] := SRC[127:0]DEST[MAXVL-1:128] := 0MOVAPS (128-bit Load- and Register-Copy- Form Legacy SSE Version)DEST[127:0] := SRC[127:0]DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)(V)MOVAPS (128-bit Store-Form Version)DEST[127:0] := SRC[127:0]Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic EquivalentVMOVAPS __m512 _mm512_load_ps( void * m);VMOVAPS __m512 _mm512_mask_load_ps(__m512 s, __mmask16 k, void * m);VMOVAPS __m512 _mm512_maskz_load_ps( __mmask16 k, void * m);VMOVAPS void _mm512_store_ps( void * d, __m512 a);VMOVAPS void _mm512_mask_store_ps( void * d, __mmask16 k, __m512 a);VMOVAPS __m256 _mm256_mask_load_ps(__m256 a, __mmask8 k, void * s);VMOVAPS __m256 _mm256_maskz_load_ps( __mmask8 k, void * s);VMOVAPS void _mm256_mask_store_ps( void * d, __mmask8 k, __m256 a);VMOVAPS __m128 _mm_mask_load_ps(__m128 a, __mmask8 k, void * s);VMOVAPS __m128 _mm_maskz_load_ps( __mmask8 k, void * s);VMOVAPS void _mm_mask_store_ps( void * d, __mmask8 k, __m128 a);MOVAPS __m256 _mm256_load_ps (float * p);MOVAPS void _mm256_store_ps(float * p, __m256 a);MOVAPS __m128 _mm_load_ps (float * p);MOVAPS void _mm_store_ps(float * p, __m128 a);
```
